In the last lecture we added some messages some toast Yep let's not make sure that we can actually submit
our recipe here and added to well to some servers we still need to create so that we can actually output
a list of recipes on our recipes page here.
So step by step.
Let's start by being able to submit this.
We already got a submit button here in the recipe template I want to add something to that button though
I want to disable it if the form is not valid.
So it will simply disable it if recipe for invalid is false.
In this case I don't want to offer a submit button because well the volleys are not valid.
It should not be submodel if that is submodel.
Also if the form is valid we will trigger on submit.
So we now need to work on in on Zammit to actually do submit the whole form and do something with that
value.
And for that I will need a new service recipe's service which stores an array of recipes.
So kind of similar to the shopping lists service where we had all our ingredients.
Now we want to have a list of recipes and I want them to have methods to get all my recipes add them
edit them remove them and maybe also add a model for every recipe just like we have a model for ingredient.
So let's start with the model and that will be a challenge for you.
Think about what such a recipe should have as properties and then feel free to create the model.
You could also already feel free to work on the recipe service if you feel like it.
I've mentioned dimethyl to should have a couple of seconds ago.
Starting in a few seconds we'll do this together.
So I want to start with the model here.
I will add a new file to the models file recipe.
Yes I do this because we will use the recipe for this application and it will always have the same properties.
So it makes sense to create kind of a blueprint for us for this.
So we'll export this recipe class here and will create or I will treat all the properties here in the
constructor to automatically assign the values you passed to the constructor to those properties.
We will need a title property and I do know that because we can simply have a look at our added recipe
age file.
We do have a title a description of difficulty.
And we are able to add ingredients.
So it makes sense to have a title which is of type string to also have a description which is of type
string to also have a difficulty and not public though that should all be private.
That should all be public excuse me.
So let's also add a difficulty public one two places there were multiple lines so that it's easier to
keep track.
The difficulty will also be a string.
We do select from a dropdown but ultimately it's a string.
We do populate to drop down with an array of strings.
Keep that in mind.
And finally we do have an array of ingredients.
So here I will use my ingredient model going to import this into my recipe model and assign this ingredient
array type here and also add to construct a body.
Even though it's empty.
So if I'm initializing the recipe and again keep in mind this set up here will automatically create
refitting properties and assign the values if we pass them.
So this is not a blueprint for our recipe.
The next step is to create a fitting service or recipe service where we can manage an array of such
recipes by getting it adding items updating items and removing items.
Let's work on this together next.
You can go ahead and try reading the service on your own right now.
So let's add recipe's service into services file.
I'm going to add my recipes tortillas file and in this file I will export my recipes service just like
this.
So this is my recipe service in there.
I want to manage my recipes array which uses the recipe model I just created so make sure to add this
import to the model's directory and then the recipe file.
And it's an area of recipes you're empty initially and then only a couple of methods.
For example you add recipe method in this method.
You could even receive a finished recipe like this or you received individual parts just like we did
in the shopping service.
So here we will receive a title which is a string.
We will receive the description which is a string will will receive the difficulty which is a string
and we will get the ingredients which is and type or which is an array of ingredients.
So make sure to add this ingredient imported at the top 2 and set this to type ingredient here.
And also here I will split this were multiple lines and then add the body of that method.
So that's my ADD recipe method in here.
I want to access my recipes array and simply push a new recipe on it.
So hirable treat a new recipe with the recipe model and I just notice a mistake here.
The moral name should not be recipes it should be recipes similar because this is one recipe.
So make sure to adjust this to have recipe as a name here and now let's create a new recipe here and
pass the title the description the difficulty and the ingredients to it.
And with that we're adding a new recipe that's all adding It is nice.
I also want to be able to get it.
So here I will add I get recipes Meffert and here I simply will return my recipes array but again with
the slice method to create a copy of it and not return the same object the same array here.
Well and we will also be able to edit such a recipe and it will already add the method to do so.
I will name it.
Update recipe.
And here I expect to get an index which is a number of the recipe in the array I want to change as well
as well again over multiple lines a tile which is a string description which is a string difficulty
which is a string.
And of course my ingredients which is an array of ingredients.
So these are the arguments I expect to get what to edit.
And then the new values.
And with that I can then access my recipes array at the index I get as an argument and then simply create
a new real recipe and replace the existing ideas with them with that and that recipe will again use
the title the description the difficulty and the ingredients.
So I'm simply creating a new recipe and overwriting the old one with it.
Well and finally I need a method to remove a recipe right.
So removing a recipe works like this I add the index number here.
And then I'd say this recipe is splice in the eggs one to remove this very recipe from the array.
These are all the methods I need.
I will also already at is service to my app Marchal here to the provider's area because I want to be
able to use it.
Application wide recipe's service.
Also make sure to add this import and with that we're going to use this recipe service in our app.
And let's start using it in the edit recipe component and this page where we want to add new recipes.